## Fan/Fandom

The idea of groups of individuals bonding over a shared interest and/or support of something (whether this be music, a sports team, or virtually anything else) and then creating what is almost their own cultures around said media, seems almost instinctual. Individuals within these spaces are ‘fans’, whereas the social contexts they exist within are often referred to as ‘fandoms’. However now these terms are most often associated with fan spaces surrounding music and media such as movies and TV series. Francesca Copa explains in her essay “A Brief History of Media of Media Fandom”, that the shift from mostly sports to media happened in the 1960s, with Star Trek in 1966 being widely regarded as the first media fandom [^Coppa43]. Although some might perceive these spaces as being frivolous distractions from everyday life, they are often also attributed with fostering environments that support a particularly strong sense of creative expression, community and identity. In fact, one of the most popular forms of medias to come out of ‘fandom’ spaces is the ‘fanzine’, a non-profit, often volunteer-based collection of articles, artwork and other fan-created content in the form of a magazine for other fans [^Güldenpfennig5]. This is just one example of the culture that develops in these spaces, where labour is most often rewarded only with the satisfaction of being part of the community. This sense of identity sometimes goes even further, as is explained in “Teenagers, fandom and identity” from Persona Studies, “the process of identity construction takes place in the framework of a community; [...] it is inseparable from the interaction of the self with others [..] and [...] the celebrity persona. [^LacasaFuentGarciaPerniaCortes53]. Because of the unique levels of dedication and passion associated with the ‘fandom’ culture we know today, it is important to hold it in high importance when having conversations on modern culture, youth and counterculture. Furthermore, social media has only skyrocketed the amount of information that can be shared and circulated within these fan spaces, creating enhanced sense of community as well as community discourse. As online spaces continue to develop, so will fan spaces. These developments will have major impacts (for better or for worse) on the youths who interact within these spaces within the context of  contemporary social platforms, misinformation and exposure.



[^Coppa43]: Coppa, Francesca, 2006.  “A Brief History of Media Fandom.” Essay. In Fan Fiction and Fan Communities in the Age of the Internet: New Essays, 41–55. Jeffersen, North Carolina: McFarland.

[^Güldenpfennig5]: Güldenpfennig, Peter, 2011. “Fandom, Fan Fiction and the Creative Mind”. Tilburg University, Netherlands.


[^LacasaFuentGarciaPerniaCortes53]:Lacasa, Pilar, Julian de la Fuente, Maria Garcia-Pernia, and Sara Cortes, 2017. “Teenagers, Fandom and Identity.” Persona Studies 3, no. 2 : 51–65. https://search.informit.org/doi/10.3316/informit.956274108483142.
